speaking/talks.md, before:

---
layout: default
style: speaking
section: Speaking
title: Talks
---

Mostly I speak on software quality
(such as my definition),
techniques conducive to it
(such as mutation testing),
or explaining useful techniques
that _seem_ more complex than they are,
so that people might be scared to try them
(such as genetic algorithms).&nbsp;
I have already done these talks at conferences
(details [here](past)):

- **_[ACRUMEN](../acrumen): What IS Software Quality Anyway?!_**{:class="big"},
about my definition of software quality.&nbsp;
(Yes, I mean ACRUMEN, not ACUMEN.&nbsp;
Follow the link for more details.)&nbsp;
This is completely technology-agnostic;
in fact there is not even any code!&nbsp;
I have done this in lengths from 20 minutes to 50,
and can do this as a keynote, a regular session, or a lightning talk.

- **_Kill All Mutants!&nbsp; (Intro to [Mutation Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"})_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
I have prepared versions with the code in
Ruby, Elixir, Python, and JavaScript,
and lengths from 20 minutes to a bit over an hour (plus Q&A).&nbsp;
This was voted the third best talk
(out of over 70) at
[Software Quality Days](https://www.software-quality-days.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2024.

- **_Tight Genes: Intro to [Genetic Algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
Yes I do mean gene<b><i>t</i></b>ic, not gene<b><i>r</i></b>ic!&nbsp;
This one includes lots of code, but not _live_ coding.&nbsp;
(It is currently in Ruby,
but I could certainly translate it into
Elixir, Python, JavaScript, or even C if you like.)&nbsp;
I have versions prepared from 30 minutes to 50.

- **_Multi-Talking (not a typo!) with [Genaver](https://github.com/CodosaurusLLC/Genaver){:target="_new"}!_**{:class="big"},
about a tool I created
that lets me quickly and easily generate
a version of a presentation
(if it's already in HTML, not PowerPoint, Keynote, etc.),
with various parts customized.&nbsp;
For instance,
what human-language to use for the introduction,
what _programming_ language to use for any code samples,
whether to use the short, medium, or long
versions of various explanations
(so that the talk can fit in various timeslots),
and so on.&nbsp;
This talk is the story of
how the need came to be,
how I settled on this implementation,
how it works, and
how to use it.&nbsp;
<!-- It is suitable mainly for conferences focusing on
kluges, hacks, jury/jerry-rigging, etc.,
such as
[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
[!!Con (BangBangCon)](https://bangbangcon.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
and
[SIGBOVIK](http://sigbovik.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.&nbsp; -->
This is currently written in Portuguese
(as delivered at
[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2023, in São Paulo, Brazil).&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this one is specific to JavaScript.

- **_Ruby Gotchas_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
I have done this for local user groups,
for about 45 minutes.&nbsp;
It details some of the unexpected rough edges of Ruby,
that are contrary to what one might expect,
based on expectations built up by "most other languages",
or common sense.&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this is _only_ in Ruby.

- **_Drink Like a Chinese Egyptian Ethiopian Filipino Finnish Greek Indian Lithuanian Mayan Nepalese Polish Welsh Xhosa Viking:
the History and Making of [MEAD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mead){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}!_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
Yes, this is not a technical thing,
at least in the computer sense.&nbsp;
;-)&nbsp;
However, in some of the longer versions,
I go into detail about some of the equipment and processes commonly used,
and some of the mathematical calculations involved.&nbsp;

Other talks I am currently pitching include:

- **_Bug Magnets: Booby-Traps in your Code_**{:class="big"},
about certain patterns often found in code,
that are not _wrong_ per se,
but make it much more likely that
the _next_ person to change that code
will introduce a bug.&nbsp;
These could be considered a subcategory of
[code smells](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_smell){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.

- **_OOP: You Keep On Using That Word..._**{:class="big"},
about how the term
[OOP (Object Oriented Programming)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
came to mean what it now means,
versus what the person who coined it really meant
(which is much closer to the
[Actor Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actor_model){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}),
when to use each, and how the two can be used together.&nbsp;

- **_TDD like a Viking: Making Mead with JavaScript!_**{:class="big"},
about the benefits and process of
[TDD (Test Driven Development)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
as applied to JavaScript, including Domain Object Model manipulation.&nbsp;
This talk walks through several examples
as I develop some helpful calculators
for brewing mead.&nbsp;
There is quite a lot of code,
but it is not _live_-coded.&nbsp;
Longer versions also include some of the how-to of brewing mead.&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this is _only_ in JavaScript.

- **_Whose Line of Code Is It Anyway?_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
This is a hands-on demo of
[Ping-Pong Pair Programming](https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/ping-pong-programming/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
with a co-speaker _or_
a volunteer from the audience
(or series of them),
working on a problem
and (at polyglot conferences) in a language
both _chosen by the audience_
(from a relatively small set).

- **_Hire Mutants to Build Your Test Suite!_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
This is a deeper dive into an idea from
the extra-long version of my "Kill All Mutants" talk,
about using
[mutation testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
to build a test suite for code that doesn't have tests yet.

- **_From Audience to Authority: Breaking Into Conference Speaking_**{:class="big"},
including things like
why you might want to talk at a conference (or not),
how to find and choose the conferences,
apply to speak at them,
track your applications,
and a few basic public speaking tips.

- **_Tame Two Tedious Tasks Together, with Doctests_**{:class="big"},
on the benefits, limitations, and how-to, of
doctests (tests built into the documentation),
as commonly used in
[Python](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
or
[Elixir](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/1.13/ExUnit.DocTest.html){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.&nbsp;
(This is intended to be a lightning talk of about ten minutes,
for either language.&nbsp;
I might be able to chop it down to five if needed,
or stretch it out to fifteen or so by including both languages.&nbsp;
Maybe even twenty with examples from additional languages,
but I think that would get boring.)


I also have some five-minute "lightning" talks prepared:

- **Why we _prepend_ to lists**, instead of appending,
when using immutable data,
as is used with most "functional" programming languages.

- Five-minute versions of my ACRUMEN, mead, and conference-speaking talks.

<!--
I'm also interested in putting together talks on
doctests (such as in Elixir or Python),
_property-based_ testing,
any other weird dev-testing tricks I find,
ways to ease into TDD/BDD,
helpful TDD/BDD hints,
code smells,
design patterns,
and more.
-->

### Other Info for Organizers


- Want me to speak on something not covered above?&nbsp;
[Ask me](/contact), and we'll see.&nbsp;
I might write a new talk for free for a conference,
but there will be a significant fee to
write a new one for a corporate event.&nbsp;
(Especially if I can't use it again,
such as if the company wants the IP rights
or the talk is specific to that company.)

- Except as noted above,
these are all in English,
but with decent lead time to translate,
I could also do them in French or Portuguese.&nbsp;
(In non-Anglophone countries,
I also do my intro in the local language.&nbsp;
So far, I have done that in
Dutch,
German,
Greek,
Lithuanian,
Polish,
Norwegian,
Portuguese,
Romanian,
Spanish, and
Swedish.)

- I will travel anywhere that is not a danger zone nor a PITA to get to,
especially interesting tourist/history spots.

- If you want my talk but are afraid of the airfare expenses,
let's talk about it.&nbsp;
There may be options, such as combining conferences on one trip.

Commit message:

add prop-based testing and that+mutation talks

speaking/talks.md, after:

---
layout: default
style: speaking
section: Speaking
title: Talks
---

Mostly I speak on software quality
(such as my definition),
techniques conducive to it
(such as mutation testing),
or explaining useful techniques
that _seem_ more complex than they are,
so that people might be scared to try them
(such as genetic algorithms).&nbsp;
I have already done these talks at conferences
(details [here](past)):

- **_[ACRUMEN](../acrumen): What IS Software Quality Anyway?!_**{:class="big"},
about my definition of software quality.&nbsp;
(Yes, I mean ACRUMEN, not ACUMEN.&nbsp;
Follow the link for more details.)&nbsp;
This is completely technology-agnostic;
in fact there is not even any code!&nbsp;
I have done this in lengths from 20 minutes to 50,
and can do this as a keynote, a regular session, or a lightning talk.

- **_Kill All Mutants!&nbsp; (Intro to [Mutation Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"})_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
I have prepared versions with the code in
Ruby, Elixir, Python, and JavaScript,
and lengths from 20 minutes to a bit over an hour (plus Q&A).&nbsp;
This was voted the third best talk
(out of over 70) at
[Software Quality Days](https://www.software-quality-days.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2024.

- **_Tight Genes: Intro to [Genetic Algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
Yes I do mean gene<b><i>t</i></b>ic, not gene<b><i>r</i></b>ic!&nbsp;
This one includes lots of code, but not _live_ coding.&nbsp;
(It is currently in Ruby,
but I could certainly translate it into
Elixir, Python, JavaScript, or even C if you like.)&nbsp;
I have versions prepared from 30 minutes to 50.

- **_Multi-Talking (not a typo!) with [Genaver](https://github.com/CodosaurusLLC/Genaver){:target="_new"}!_**{:class="big"},
about a tool I created
that lets me quickly and easily generate
a version of a presentation
(if it's already in HTML, not PowerPoint, Keynote, etc.),
with various parts customized.&nbsp;
For instance,
what human-language to use for the introduction,
what _programming_ language to use for any code samples,
whether to use the short, medium, or long
versions of various explanations
(so that the talk can fit in various timeslots),
and so on.&nbsp;
This talk is the story of
how the need came to be,
how I settled on this implementation,
how it works, and
how to use it.&nbsp;
<!-- It is suitable mainly for conferences focusing on
kluges, hacks, jury/jerry-rigging, etc.,
such as
[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
[!!Con (BangBangCon)](https://bangbangcon.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
and
[SIGBOVIK](http://sigbovik.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.&nbsp; -->
This is currently written in Portuguese
(as delivered at
[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2023, in São Paulo, Brazil).&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this one is specific to JavaScript.

- **_Ruby Gotchas_**{:class="big"}.&nbsp;
I have done this for local user groups,
for about 45 minutes.&nbsp;
It details some of the unexpected rough edges of Ruby,
that are contrary to what one might expect,
based on expectations built up by "most other languages",
or common sense.&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this is _only_ in Ruby.

- **_Drink Like a Chinese Egyptian Ethiopian Filipino Finnish Greek Indian Lithuanian Mayan Nepalese Polish Welsh Xhosa Viking:
the History and Making of [MEAD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mead){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}!_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
Yes, this is not a technical thing,
at least in the computer sense.&nbsp;
;-)&nbsp;
However, in some of the longer versions,
I go into detail about some of the equipment and processes commonly used,
and some of the mathematical calculations involved.&nbsp;

Other talks I am currently pitching include:

- **_Bug Magnets: Booby-Traps in your Code_**{:class="big"},
about certain patterns often found in code,
that are not _wrong_ per se,
but make it much more likely that
the _next_ person to change that code
will introduce a bug.&nbsp;
These could be considered a subcategory of
[code smells](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_smell){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.

- **_From Examples to Exhaustive: Intro to [Property-Based Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_testing#Property_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}_**{:class="big"}.

- **_TWO Weird Tricks: Intro to [Property-Based Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_testing#Property_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"} and [Mutation Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing)_**{:class="big"}.

- **_OOP: You Keep On Using That Word..._**{:class="big"},
about how the term
[OOP (Object Oriented Programming)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
came to mean what it now means,
versus what the person who coined it really meant
(which is much closer to the
[Actor Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actor_model){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}),
when to use each, and how the two can be used together.&nbsp;

- **_TDD like a Viking: Making Mead with JavaScript!_**{:class="big"},
about the benefits and process of
[TDD (Test Driven Development)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
as applied to JavaScript, including Domain Object Model manipulation.&nbsp;
This talk walks through several examples
as I develop some helpful calculators
for brewing mead.&nbsp;
There is quite a lot of code,
but it is not _live_-coded.&nbsp;
Longer versions also include some of the how-to of brewing mead.&nbsp;
Unlike most of my talks,
this is _only_ in JavaScript.

- **_Whose Line of Code Is It Anyway?_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
This is a hands-on demo of
[Ping-Pong Pair Programming](https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/ping-pong-programming/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
with a co-speaker _or_
a volunteer from the audience
(or series of them),
working on a problem
and (at polyglot conferences) in a language
both _chosen by the audience_
(from a relatively small set).

- **_Hire Mutants to Build Your Test Suite!_**{:class="big"}&nbsp;
This is a deeper dive into an idea from
the extra-long version of my "Kill All Mutants" talk,
about using
[mutation testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
to build a test suite for code that doesn't have tests yet.

- **_From Audience to Authority: Breaking Into Conference Speaking_**{:class="big"},
including things like
why you might want to talk at a conference (or not),
how to find and choose the conferences,
apply to speak at them,
track your applications,
and a few basic public speaking tips.

- **_Tame Two Tedious Tasks Together, with Doctests_**{:class="big"},
on the benefits, limitations, and how-to, of
doctests (tests built into the documentation),
as commonly used in
[Python](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
or
[Elixir](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/1.13/ExUnit.DocTest.html){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.&nbsp;
(This is intended to be a lightning talk of about ten minutes,
for either language.&nbsp;
I might be able to chop it down to five if needed,
or stretch it out to fifteen or so by including both languages.&nbsp;
Maybe even twenty with examples from additional languages,
but I think that would get boring.)


I also have some five-minute "lightning" talks prepared:

- **Why we _prepend_ to lists**, instead of appending,
when using immutable data,
as is used with most "functional" programming languages.

- Five-minute versions of my ACRUMEN, mead, and conference-speaking talks.

### Other Info for Organizers


- Want me to speak on something not covered above?&nbsp;
[Ask me](/contact), and we'll see.&nbsp;
I might write a new talk for free for a conference,
but there will be a significant fee to
write a new one for a corporate event.&nbsp;
(Especially if I can't use it again,
such as if the company wants the IP rights
or the talk is specific to that company.)

- Except as noted above,
these are all in English,
but with decent lead time to translate,
I could also do them in French or Portuguese.&nbsp;
(In non-Anglophone countries,
I also do my intro in the local language.&nbsp;
So far, I have done that in
Dutch,
German,
Greek,
Lithuanian,
Polish,
Norwegian,
Portuguese,
Romanian,
Spanish, and
Swedish.)

- I will travel anywhere that is not a danger zone nor a PITA to get to,
especially interesting tourist/history spots.

- If you want my talk but are afraid of the airfare expenses,
let's talk about it.&nbsp;
There may be options, such as combining conferences on one trip.
