clients.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Clients
---

I mainly serve
established
American
[SaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
companies.&nbsp;
However, you don't _have_ to be one to use my services.&nbsp;
That's just the best fit.

- If you sell your software as a _product_,
or write software for others,
or your main line of work
depends directly in some other way
on software _you write_,
you're probably still a good fit for
all of my services.

- If your main line of work
depends directly in some other way
on software you _outsource_,
you would still be a good fit for
[roadmapping](roadmapping),
to help bidders understand what you need,
and my
[software development](development)
services.

- If you write (or outsource) in-house tools
that just _help_ with your business,
like inventory or appointment management or whatever,
or your company is not yet "established"
(over three years old, or profitable),
then you can still benefit from my
[software development](development) services,
and [roadmapping](roadmapping) for major efforts.&nbsp;
My other services are aimed more at _quality_,
which generally isn't as important for
internal software,
or
ideas still being validated.

So why am I targeting "established American SaaS" companies?&nbsp;

- Companies that are not well established (mainly startups),
need to focus on _speed_ and _idea validation_,
which
[roadmapping](roadmapping)
can help with,
but my other offerings focus mainly on _quality_.&nbsp;
That helps speed in the long run,
but takes a while to have a noticeable effect.

- There is significant additional overhead,
on _both sides_, to
dealing with foreign companies.&nbsp;
For a very profitable contract,
I might jump through the hoops,
but I'm certainly not _chasing_ that market.

- And lastly, SaaS is the space I know best.

Past clients have included:

<!--
- [Dominion Due Diligence Group](https://www.d3g.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
an environmental, engineering, and energy due diligence firm;
-->

- a piece of the US Government that prefers not to be named publicly
(even though the work was not classified),
but sorta rhymes with "cable ski-birch cab-Nora-Dory"<!--,
who needed help with data guards features,
testing tools, and
general software quality,
in Ruby, Python, and C,
and mentoring junior developers-->;

- [OneDoor](https://onedoor.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a company with a <!-- Ruby on Rails --> web app for
large retail chains to plan their store layouts for sales campaigns<!--,
who needed help speeding up their database-->;

- [OnLife Health](https://www.onlifehealth.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a comprehensive wellness solutions company<!--,
who was adding features to
the section of their Ruby on Rails portal used by coaches-->;

- a major Internet infrastructure company that prefers not to be named publicly,
but sorta rhymes with "very-fine"
(not to be confused with the certificate business they had spun off)<!--,
who was experimenting with moving storage from MySQL or PostgreSQL
to Riak or some other such sharded system,
for a Ruby on Rails system
to allow people to create their own endpoints for online services,
and split it into API and UI halves-->;

- [Retrieval Systems](https://www.retrievalsystems.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a maker of custom database systems<!--,
who wanted Ruby on Rails administrative interfaces to the databases-->;

- [HomeActions](https://www.retrievalsystems.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a company with <!-- Ruby on Rails --> software to let
real estate agents maintain
their clients' subscriptions to their _snailmail_ newsletters;

- a major British credit card that prefers not to be named publicly,
but sorta rhymes with "spark-day bard"<!--,
which was putting up England's first Daily Deals site (now defunct)
in Ruby on Rails-->;

- [the US Department of Veterans Affairs](https://www.va.gov/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}<!--,
which was putting up an event planning system in Ruby on Rails,
including ways for attendees to
choose and track which sessions to attend, and network with others-->;

- [Department Thirteen](http://www.department13.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
which had a device tracking system and wanted a demo to display
what could be done with the data via correlation and display of map points<!--,
which I did in JavaScript and HTML5,
with Ruby to convert a SQL data dump into JS-->;

- EasyETFs, a now-defunct Australian startup that wanted
a financial portfolio rebalancing system<!--,
which I did in Ruby on Rails-->;

- Atomic Broadcast, a now-defunct startup with an idea about social media filtering<!--,
for which I did a brief test-drive (just retrieving tweets) in Ruby on Rails-->;

- Liqwid Networks (a now-defunct "Real-Time Enterprise Computing and Communications (RTEC2) technology" software company),
who had a group-centric self-service web-based
email and SMS system<!-- in Python,
for which I roadmapped and implemented features,
housed the server for a while,
and interfaced with an overseas company trying to integrate it into
their project management software product-->;

- [Send2Fax](http://www.send2fax.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}<!--,
who needed a program to initialize fax boards, which I did in C -->;

- a small voice-response system company whose name I forget
(it was literally thirty years ago, and the records have been lost)<!--,
who needed refactoring, bugfixing, and adding features, in C-->;

- and even longer ago, assorted companies and private individuals who needed
PC hardware or software purchased, installed, configured, troubleshot, etc.

Commit message:

add D3G, dump client rhymes, add staffing agencies

clients.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Clients
---

I mainly serve
established
American
[SaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
companies.&nbsp;
However, you don't _have_ to be one to use my services.&nbsp;
That's just the best fit.

- If you sell your software as a _product_,
or write software for others,
or your main line of work
depends directly in some other way
on software _you write_,
you're probably still a good fit for
all of my services.

- If your main line of work
depends directly in some other way
on software you _outsource_,
you would still be a good fit for
[roadmapping](roadmapping),
to help bidders understand what you need,
and my
[software development](development)
services.

- If you write (or outsource) in-house tools
that just _help_ with your business,
like inventory or appointment management or whatever,
or your company is not yet "established"
(over three years old, or profitable),
then you can still benefit from my
[software development](development) services,
and [roadmapping](roadmapping) for major efforts.&nbsp;
My other services are aimed more at _quality_,
which generally isn't as important for
internal software,
or
ideas still being validated.

So why am I targeting "established American SaaS" companies?&nbsp;

- Companies that are not well established (mainly startups),
need to focus on _speed_ and _idea validation_,
which
[roadmapping](roadmapping)
can help with,
but my other offerings focus mainly on _quality_.&nbsp;
That helps speed in the long run,
but takes a while to have a noticeable effect.

- There is significant additional overhead,
on _both sides_, to
dealing with foreign companies.&nbsp;
For a very profitable contract,
I might jump through the hoops,
but I'm certainly not _chasing_ that market.

- And lastly, SaaS is the space I know best.

Past clients have included:

- [Dominion Due Diligence Group](https://www.d3g.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
an environmental, engineering, and energy due diligence firm;

- a piece of the US military that prefers not to be named publicly
(even though the work was not classified)<!--,
who needed help with data guards features,
testing tools, and
general software quality,
in Ruby, Python, and C,
and mentoring junior developers-->;

- [OneDoor](https://onedoor.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a company with a <!-- Ruby on Rails --> web app for
large retail chains to plan their store layouts for sales campaigns<!--,
who needed help speeding up their database-->;

- [OnLife Health](https://www.onlifehealth.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a comprehensive wellness solutions company<!--,
who was adding features to
the section of their Ruby on Rails portal used by coaches-->;

- a major Internet infrastructure company that prefers not to be named publicly<!--,
who was experimenting with moving storage from MySQL or PostgreSQL
to Riak or some other such sharded system,
for a Ruby on Rails system
to allow people to create their own endpoints for online services,
and split it into API and UI halves-->;

- [Retrieval Systems](https://www.retrievalsystems.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a maker of custom database systems<!--,
who wanted Ruby on Rails administrative interfaces to the databases-->;

- [HomeActions](https://homeactions.net/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
a company with <!-- Ruby on Rails --> software to let
real estate agents maintain
their clients' subscriptions to their _snailmail_ newsletters;

- a major British credit card that prefers not to be named publicly<!--,
which was putting up England's first Daily Deals site (now defunct)
in Ruby on Rails-->;

- [the US Department of Veterans Affairs](https://www.va.gov/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}<!--,
which was putting up an event planning system in Ruby on Rails,
including ways for attendees to
choose and track which sessions to attend, and network with others-->;

- [Department Thirteen](http://www.department13.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
which had a device tracking system and wanted a demo to display
what could be done with the data via correlation and display of map points<!--,
which I did in JavaScript and HTML5,
with Ruby to convert a SQL data dump into JS-->;

- EasyETFs, a now-defunct Australian startup in the financial space<!--
that wanted a financial portfolio rebalancing system,
which I did in Ruby on Rails-->;

- Atomic Broadcast, a now-defunct startup with an idea about social media filtering<!--,
for which I did a brief test-drive (just retrieving tweets) in Ruby on Rails-->;

- Liqwid Networks, a now-defunct
"Real-Time Enterprise Computing and Communications (RTEC2) technology"
software company<!--,
who had a group-centric self-service web-based
email and SMS system in Python,
for which I roadmapped and implemented features,
housed the server for a while,
and interfaced with an overseas company trying to integrate it into
their project management software product-->;

- [Send2Fax](http://www.send2fax.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
an Internet fax-sending company<!--,
who needed a program to initialize fax boards, which I did in C -->;

- a small voice-response system company whose name I forget
(it was literally thirty years ago, and the records have been lost)<!--,
who needed refactoring, bugfixing, and adding features, in C-->;

- and even longer ago, assorted companies and private individuals who needed
PC hardware or software purchased, installed, configured, troubleshot, etc.

If you want to hire me through a staffing agency,
I have worked in the past with
[Synigent Technologies](https://www.synigent.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
[Toptal](https://www.toptal.com/#accept-only-candid-coders){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(please make sure you include the anchor on that URL,
as it's my referral code),
and
[Celerity](https://www.celerity.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}.&nbsp;
(And others, now defunct.)
