index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

<!-- this comment is here just to keep Jekyll from moving the below
headline up into the header; dunno why it does that.  -->

### I help companies write better software faster.

I do this by:

- **[Roadmapping projects and large features](roadmapping)**
to help you figure out where you want to go, and how to get there.

- **[Advising development teams](advice)**
about processes, tools, techniques, etc.

- **[Training developers](training)**
how to write better software faster,
including what "better" even means in the first place.

- **[Speaking](speaking)**
at conferences, corporate events, and podcasts.

- **[Writing software](development)**,
including mentoring juniors,
all done at least mostly remotely, and very part-time.

<!--
I do these mainly for
established
American
[SaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
companies,
but other companies could be a reasonable fit too.&nbsp;
See
[the Clients page](clients) for more details.
-->

Other content here:
- **[the <span class="acrumen">ACRUMEN</span> Software Quality Definition](acrumen)**
- **[Blog](blog)**
- **[About Me](about)**
- **[Contact](contact)**

Elsewhere:

- **[Resume](https://bit.ly/dave-aronson-resume){:target="_new"}**
- **[Github](https://github.com/davearonson/){:target="_new"}**
- **[LinkedIn (Dave)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/davearonson/){:target="_new"}**
- **[LinkedIn (Codosaurus)](http://www.linkedin.com/company/Codosaurus-LLC){:target="_new"}**
- **[Twitter](https://twitter.com/davearonson){:target="_new"}**
- **[Exercism](https://exercism.io/profiles/DaveAronson){:target="_new"}**
- **[Quora](https://www.quora.com/profile/Dave-Aronson){:target="_new"}**

(The design and wording of this whole site is under renovation.&nbsp;
I know it's not very pretty now, but at least you get the general idea!)

Commit message:

add spambait, and pare down services

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

<!-- this comment is here just to keep Jekyll from moving the below
headline up into the header; dunno why it does that.  -->

<!--

### I help companies write better software faster.

I do this by:

- **[Roadmapping projects and large features](roadmapping)**
to help you figure out where you want to go, and how to get there.

- **[Advising development teams](advice)**
about processes, tools, techniques, etc.

- **[Training developers](training)**
how to write better software faster,
including what "better" even means in the first place.

- **[Speaking](speaking)**
at conferences, corporate events, and podcasts.

- **[Writing software](development)**,
including mentoring juniors,
all done at least mostly remotely, and very part-time.

-->

I am in the process of retiring,
so I am REMOVING most of my services.&nbsp;
For now, I will still
[speak](speaking)
at conferences, corporate events, and podcasts,
and do
[software development](development),
including mentoring juniors,
remotely (plus maybe occasional light travel),
on a "very part-time" basis
(20 hours a week or fewer).

Also, my wife and I plan to move to Portugal,
most likely sometime in the latter half of 2026.

<!--
I do these mainly for
established
American
[SaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
companies,
but other companies could be a reasonable fit too.&nbsp;
See
[the Clients page](clients) for more details.
-->

Other content here:
- **[the <span class="acrumen">ACRUMEN</span> Software Quality Definition](acrumen)**
- **[Blog](blog)**
- **[About Me](about)**
- **[Contact](contact)**

Elsewhere:

- **[Resume](https://bit.ly/dave-aronson-resume){:target="_new"}**
- **[Github (Dave)](https://github.com/DaveAronson/){:target="_new"}**
- **[Github (Codosaurus)](https://github.com/CodosaurusLLC/){:target="_new"}**
- **[LinkedIn (Dave)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/DaveAronson/){:target="_new"}**
- **[LinkedIn (Codosaurus)](http://www.linkedin.com/company/Codosaurus-LLC){:target="_new"}**
- **[Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/davearonson.bsky.social){:target="_new"}**
- **[Exercism](https://exercism.io/profiles/DaveAronson){:target="_new"}**
- **[Quora](https://www.quora.com/profile/Dave-Aronson){:target="_new"}**

(The design and wording of this whole site is under renovation.&nbsp;
I know it's not very pretty now, but at least you get the general idea!)
