speaking.md, before:

---
layout: default
style: speaking
title: Speaking
---

I enjoy presenting at conferences,
mainly
<!-- technology-agnostic software development conferences,
or about some language I know and like such as Ruby or Elixir, -->
held in person at interesting destinations,
that aren't a royal PITA to get to,
and reimbursing my travel expenses.&nbsp;
(I generally do not do _remote_ conferences,
unless they are within three timezones of US-East.)&nbsp;
I will also talk to a _company_
(or their devs)
for an additional fee.

The topics I _currently_ have full-length talks prepared for are:

- My
[**ACRUMEN**](acrumen)
definition of software quality
(title: "Write Better Software with ACRUMEN").&nbsp;
<!-- This is completely technology-agnostic;
in fact there is not even any code!&nbsp;
I have presented on this at
several conferences
and other such events,
from ten minutes to two and a half hours,
usually 30-45.&nbsp; -->
I can also do this as
a lightning talk
or a keynote.

- [**Mutation testing**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Kill All Mutants!&nbsp; (Intro to Mutation Testing)").&nbsp;
<!-- There is some code in this, not much and fairly simple,
mainly brief snippets to test, mutations of it, and tests.&nbsp; -->
I have prepared versions so far with the code in
<!--
[Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
JavaScript,
[Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
and language-agnostic pseudocode.&nbsp;
-->
several languages,
and have presented on this at many conferences<!--,
from twenty minutes to a full hour, soon an hour and a half-->.&nbsp;

- [**Genetic Algorithms**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Tight Genes: Intro to Genetic Algorithms").&nbsp;
Yes I do mean genetic, not generic.&nbsp;
This one includes some heavy live coding,
so I prefer to do it in a language I know well,
but for conferences about other languages
(or whether the "write/run loop" is long),
I can fake it with prepped slides.

- **Ruby "gotchas"**
(title: "Ruby Gotchas").&nbsp;
<!-- I.e., nasty surprises in the
Ruby programming language.&nbsp; -->
I have done this for local user groups, for about 45 minutes.

- [**Ping-Pong Pair Programming**](https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/ping-pong-programming/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Whose Line of Code Is It Anyway?").&nbsp;
This is a hands-on demo with
a co-speaker _or_
a volunteer from the audience
(or series of them),
working on a problem
and (at polyglot conferences) in a language
both _chosen by the audience_.

- **Breaking into conference speaking**
(title: "You Wanna Say Somethin'?").&nbsp;
<!--I haven't actually done this one at conferences,
or anywhere else that recorded it,
but I have the bare bones prepped as a 5-7 minute
[Toastmasters](http://toastmasters.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
speech,
and intend to fill it out to 30-45 minutes for conferences.&nbsp;
Intended content --> This includes things like
why you might want to talk at a conference,
how to find the conferences,
how to apply to speak at them,
and a few basic public speaking tips.

- **Making [mead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mead){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}**
(title: "Drink Like a Chinese Egyptian Ethiopian Filipino Finnish Greek Indian Lithuanian Mayan Nepalese Polish Welsh Xhosa Viking:
the History and Making of MEAD!").&nbsp;
Yes, this is not a technical thing,
at least in the computer sense.&nbsp;
;-)

I also have a _lightning_ talk prepared on
why we _prepend_ to lists, instead of appending,
when using immutable data.&nbsp;
I'm also interested in putting together talks on
doctests (such as in Elixir or Python),
_property-based_ testing,
any other weird dev-testing tricks I find,
ways to ease into TDD/BDD,
helpful TDD/BDD hints,
and more.

Want me to speak on something not covered above?&nbsp;
[Ask me](/contact), and we'll see.

Definite speaking engagements in the _future_ include:

|When||Conference||Where||Topic(s) |
|-|
|September&nbsp;2022||[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Lisbon, Portugal||Mutants|
|Sep/Oct&nbsp;2022||[Voxxed Days Athens](https://voxxeddays.com/athens/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Athens, Greece||Mutants|
|November&nbsp;2022||[TechBash](https://techbash.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Pocono Manor, PA, USA||Mutants|
{:class="upcoming-engagements speaking"}

_Likely_ engagements in the next couple years or so,
mainly because I was chosen already
but the conference was canceled
or postponed
(or moved online too many timezones away,
or various other reasons),
include:

| Conference || Where || Topic(s) |
|-|
|[Build Stuff Vilnius](https://www.buildstuff.events/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Vilnius, Lithuania||Mutants|
|[Code.Talks](https://www.codetalks.de/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Hamburg, Germany||Mutants|
|[CodeStock](http://codestock.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Knoxville, TN, USA||Mutants|
|[DevDays Europe](https://devdays.lt/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Vilnius, Lithuania||Mutants|
|[I T.A.K.E.](https://itakeunconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Bucharest, Romania||ACRUMEN|
|[THAT Conference](https://that.us/events/tx/2022/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Round Rock, TX, USA||ACRUMEN|
|[US Mensa Annual Gathering 2023](https://ag.us.mensa.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Baltimore, MD, USA||Mead|
|[WeAreDevelopers World Congress](https://www.wearedevelopers.com/world-congress){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Berlin, Germany||Mutants|
|[WeRockIT](https://www.werockitconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Huntsville, AL, USA||Mutants|
{:class="likely-engagements speaking"}

Speaking engagements in the _past_ include:

<table class="past-engagements speaking">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="numeric">Year</th>
      <th>Conference</th>
      <th>Where</th>
      <th>Topic(s)</th>
      <th>Link(s)</th>
      <th class="numeric">Mins</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://pandemicrg2022.wordpress.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">MWM RG 2022<br/><small>(Metropolitan Washington Mensa<br/>Regional Gathering)</small></a></td>
      <td>Reston, VA, USA</td>
      <td>Mead</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwjVYhl4rqI" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">62</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://that.us/events/wi/2022/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">THAT Conference</a></td>
      <td>Wisconsin Dells, WI, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcmelbourne.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Melbourne</a></td>
      <td>Melbourne, Australia</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td></td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually, about 50 minutes)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://codesync.global/conferences/code-beam-sto-2022/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code BEAM Europe</a></td>
      <td>Stockholm, Sweden</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9tqoJ_wDgA" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">41</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://accu.org/conf-main/main/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">ACCU (Ass'n of C/C++ Users)</a></td>
      <td>Bristol, UK</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://youtu.be/xBZqis7SBnw" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">70</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therelicans.com/polyglot" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Polyglot Podcast</a>,<br/>released 2021-12-01</td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN and other<br/>software quality</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therelicans.com/polyglot/appropriate-correct-robust-usable-maintainable-and-efficient-acrumen-with-dave-aronson" target="_new">audio</a> and <a href="https://dev.to/newrelic/appropriate-correct-robust-usable-maintainable-and-efficient-acrumen-with-dave-aronson-4f71" target="_new">transcript</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://sceniccitysummit.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Scenic City Summit</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">40?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://sceniccitysummit.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Scenic City Summit</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">40?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://codeeurope.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code Europe <i>Warsaw</i></a></td>
      <td>Warsaw, Poland</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">55?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://codeeurope.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code Europe <i>Gdansk</i></a></td>
      <td>Gdansk, Poland</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">55?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.kcdc.info/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Kansas City Developer Conference<br/>(KCDC)</a></td>
      <td>Kansas City, MO, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">45?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(they don't record sessions)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcsydney.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Sydney</a></td>
      <td>Online, darnit!</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQrnVD6CbxU" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">52</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.devtalks.ro/bucharest/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">DevTalks Bucharest / Reimagined</a></td>
      <td>Online, dagnabit!</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tknqCCVQlIA?start=24963&version=3&end=26790" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">31</td>
    </tr>
    <!-- <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(30-min backup video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JN3CRHWUHTk&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" rel="nofollow" target="_new">here</a>)</td>
    </tr> -->
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyrogues.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Ruby Rogues Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyrogues.com/467/" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">68</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.jsconfhi.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">JSConf Hawai'i</a></td>
      <td>Waikiki, HI, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNMBOj7JUPs" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">22</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyconf.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">RubyConf</a></td>
      <td>Nashville, TN, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GId6mFL0_c" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">39</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="http://www.lrtechfest.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Little Rock Tech Fest</a></td>
      <td>Little Rock, AR, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RT1712JkUdM" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Sorry for the bad audio, they don't record, so it's from my phone on a tripod, and slightly cleaned up)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.heartlanddc.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Heartland Devconf</a></td>
      <td>Omaha, NE, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=adBtsgolhvI&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(recorded on my phone)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://maintainable.fm/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Maintainable Software Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://maintainable.fm/episodes/dave-aronson-putting-the-m-in-acrumen-n_6lX9fc" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://github.com/elixirup/remote-meetup/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Elixir Remote Meetup<br/>(September)</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants and<br/>Prepending</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCjeKcSN41I&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Ruby on Rails Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Pittsburgh, PA, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com/283" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">24</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My first podcast!)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://abstractions.io/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Abstractions</a> II</td>
      <td>Pittsburgh, PA, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(They recorded it but are fixing technical difficulties)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://us.mensa.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">American Mensa</a>'s<br/>
        <a href="https://ag.us.mensa.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Annual Gathering</a>
      </td>
      <td>Phoeniz, AZ, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">75!</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Again, more aimed at feedback than teaching, taking advantage of their long timeslots (and big brains))</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.spaconference.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Software Process Advancement</a></td>
      <td>London, UK</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">150!</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Aimed mainly at discussing and perfecting it, not so much teaching it)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcoslo.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Oslo</a></td>
      <td>Oslo, Norway</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZchSZPjsY0&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My first delivery of this talk, not very good)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://novacodecamp.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Nova Codecamp</a></td>
      <td>Reston, VA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1QfGyGy3EV8&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Another one where they don't record so it was just my phone on a tripod)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td>Codecamp Chisinau,<br/>part of the <a href="https://codecamp.ro/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Codecamp Romania</a> series</td>
      <td>Chisinau, Moldova</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td><a href="https://devconf.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Devconf Poland</a></td>
      <td>Krakow, Poland</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcREOna0_NA&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">37</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My very first conference talk, so not very well done, sorry!)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td>assorted DC-area Meetups</td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td><a href="https://elixirconf.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">ElixirConf</a></td>
      <td>Bellevue, WA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6V1FO1xGitU&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2017</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyconf.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">RubyConf</a></td>
      <td>New Orleans, LA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YMoa5JpjEtM?start=4080&end=4355" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2014</td>
      <td>assorted DC-area Meetups</td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>Ruby Gotchas</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">~45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">1990s<br/>to Now</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.mwm.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Metropolitan Washington Mensa</a>'s<br/><a href="http://mwmrg.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Regional Gathering</a></td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>spam-protection,<br/>and non-tech topics</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">30-45</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Also, I was one of the co-organizers of
[TDDConf](https://tddconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2021,
the very first
international test-driven development conference,
and appeared briefly on-screen
to introduce speakers and fill time.&nbsp;
I was also the <i>sole</i> organizer of Ruby DAYCamp (no website) 2013,
a semi-impromptu "overflow" event for those who couldn't get into Ruby DCamp
(defunct, site gone).

Commit message:

add Nerdear.LA to known future, Devoxx.be to possibles

speaking.md, after:

---
layout: default
style: speaking
title: Speaking
---

I enjoy presenting at conferences,
mainly
<!-- technology-agnostic software development conferences,
or about some language I know and like such as Ruby or Elixir, -->
held in person at interesting destinations,
that aren't a royal PITA to get to,
and reimbursing my travel expenses.&nbsp;
(I generally do not do _remote_ conferences,
unless they are within three timezones of US-East.)&nbsp;
I will also talk to a _company_
(or their devs)
for an additional fee.

The topics I _currently_ have full-length talks prepared for are:

- My
[**ACRUMEN**](acrumen)
definition of software quality
(title: "Write Better Software with ACRUMEN").&nbsp;
<!-- This is completely technology-agnostic;
in fact there is not even any code!&nbsp;
I have presented on this at
several conferences
and other such events,
from ten minutes to two and a half hours,
usually 30-45.&nbsp; -->
I can also do this as
a lightning talk
or a keynote.

- [**Mutation testing**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Kill All Mutants!&nbsp; (Intro to Mutation Testing)").&nbsp;
<!-- There is some code in this, not much and fairly simple,
mainly brief snippets to test, mutations of it, and tests.&nbsp; -->
I have prepared versions so far with the code in
<!--
[Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
JavaScript,
[Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"},
and language-agnostic pseudocode.&nbsp;
-->
several languages,
and have presented on this at many conferences<!--,
from twenty minutes to a full hour, soon an hour and a half-->.&nbsp;

- [**Genetic Algorithms**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Tight Genes: Intro to Genetic Algorithms").&nbsp;
Yes I do mean genetic, not generic.&nbsp;
This one includes some heavy live coding,
so I prefer to do it in a language I know well,
but for conferences about other languages
(or whether the "write/run loop" is long),
I can fake it with prepped slides.

- **Ruby "gotchas"**
(title: "Ruby Gotchas").&nbsp;
<!-- I.e., nasty surprises in the
Ruby programming language.&nbsp; -->
I have done this for local user groups, for about 45 minutes.

- [**Ping-Pong Pair Programming**](https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/ping-pong-programming/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
(title: "Whose Line of Code Is It Anyway?").&nbsp;
This is a hands-on demo with
a co-speaker _or_
a volunteer from the audience
(or series of them),
working on a problem
and (at polyglot conferences) in a language
both _chosen by the audience_.

- **Breaking into conference speaking**
(title: "You Wanna Say Somethin'?").&nbsp;
<!--I haven't actually done this one at conferences,
or anywhere else that recorded it,
but I have the bare bones prepped as a 5-7 minute
[Toastmasters](http://toastmasters.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
speech,
and intend to fill it out to 30-45 minutes for conferences.&nbsp;
Intended content --> This includes things like
why you might want to talk at a conference,
how to find the conferences,
how to apply to speak at them,
and a few basic public speaking tips.

- **Making [mead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mead){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}**
(title: "Drink Like a Chinese Egyptian Ethiopian Filipino Finnish Greek Indian Lithuanian Mayan Nepalese Polish Welsh Xhosa Viking:
the History and Making of MEAD!").&nbsp;
Yes, this is not a technical thing,
at least in the computer sense.&nbsp;
;-)

I also have a _lightning_ talk prepared on
why we _prepend_ to lists, instead of appending,
when using immutable data.&nbsp;
I'm also interested in putting together talks on
doctests (such as in Elixir or Python),
_property-based_ testing,
any other weird dev-testing tricks I find,
ways to ease into TDD/BDD,
helpful TDD/BDD hints,
and more.

Want me to speak on something not covered above?&nbsp;
[Ask me](/contact), and we'll see.

Definite speaking engagements in the _future_ include:

|When||Conference||Where||Topic(s) |
|-|
|September&nbsp;2022||[GambiConf](https://gambiconf.dev/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Lisbon, Portugal||Mutants|
|Sep/Oct&nbsp;2022||[Voxxed Days Athens](https://voxxeddays.com/athens/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Athens, Greece||Mutants|
|Oct&nbsp;2022||[Nerdear.LA](https://nerdear.la/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Buenos Aires, Argentina||Genetic Algos|
|November&nbsp;2022||[TechBash](https://techbash.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Pocono Manor, PA, USA||Mutants|
{:class="upcoming-engagements speaking"}

_Likely_ engagements in the next couple years or so,
mainly because I was chosen already
but I declined for this year,
or the conference was canceled
or postponed
(or moved online too many timezones away,
or various other reasons),
include:

| Conference || Where || Topic(s) |
|-|
|[Devoxx Belgium](https://devoxx.be/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Antwerp, Belgium||Mutants and/or Genetic Algos|
|[Build Stuff Vilnius](https://www.buildstuff.events/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Vilnius, Lithuania||Mutants|
|[Code.Talks](https://www.codetalks.de/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Hamburg, Germany||Mutants|
|[CodeStock](http://codestock.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Knoxville, TN, USA||Mutants|
|[DevDays Europe](https://devdays.lt/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Vilnius, Lithuania||Mutants|
|[I T.A.K.E.](https://itakeunconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Bucharest, Romania||ACRUMEN|
|[THAT Conference](https://that.us/events/tx/2022/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Round Rock, TX, USA||ACRUMEN|
|[US Mensa Annual Gathering 2023](https://ag.us.mensa.org/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Baltimore, MD, USA||Mead|
|[WeAreDevelopers World Congress](https://www.wearedevelopers.com/world-congress){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Berlin, Germany||Mutants|
|[WeRockIT](https://www.werockitconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}||Huntsville, AL, USA||Mutants|
{:class="likely-engagements speaking"}

Speaking engagements in the _past_ include:

<table class="past-engagements speaking">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="numeric">Year</th>
      <th>Conference</th>
      <th>Where</th>
      <th>Topic(s)</th>
      <th>Link(s)</th>
      <th class="numeric">Mins</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://pandemicrg2022.wordpress.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">MWM RG 2022<br/><small>(Metropolitan Washington Mensa<br/>Regional Gathering)</small></a></td>
      <td>Reston, VA, USA</td>
      <td>Mead</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwjVYhl4rqI" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">62</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://that.us/events/wi/2022/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">THAT Conference</a></td>
      <td>Wisconsin Dells, WI, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcmelbourne.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Melbourne</a></td>
      <td>Melbourne, Australia</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td></td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually, about 50 minutes)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://codesync.global/conferences/code-beam-sto-2022/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code BEAM Europe</a></td>
      <td>Stockholm, Sweden</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9tqoJ_wDgA" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">41</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2022</td>
      <td><a href="https://accu.org/conf-main/main/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">ACCU (Ass'n of C/C++ Users)</a></td>
      <td>Bristol, UK</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://youtu.be/xBZqis7SBnw" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">70</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therelicans.com/polyglot" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Polyglot Podcast</a>,<br/>released 2021-12-01</td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN and other<br/>software quality</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therelicans.com/polyglot/appropriate-correct-robust-usable-maintainable-and-efficient-acrumen-with-dave-aronson" target="_new">audio</a> and <a href="https://dev.to/newrelic/appropriate-correct-robust-usable-maintainable-and-efficient-acrumen-with-dave-aronson-4f71" target="_new">transcript</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://sceniccitysummit.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Scenic City Summit</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">40?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://sceniccitysummit.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Scenic City Summit</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">40?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://codeeurope.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code Europe <i>Warsaw</i></a></td>
      <td>Warsaw, Poland</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">55?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://codeeurope.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Code Europe <i>Gdansk</i></a></td>
      <td>Gdansk, Poland</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
      <td class="numeric">55?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(video coming eventually)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2021</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.kcdc.info/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Kansas City Developer Conference<br/>(KCDC)</a></td>
      <td>Kansas City, MO, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">45?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(they don't record sessions)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcsydney.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Sydney</a></td>
      <td>Online, darnit!</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQrnVD6CbxU" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">52</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.devtalks.ro/bucharest/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">DevTalks Bucharest / Reimagined</a></td>
      <td>Online, dagnabit!</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tknqCCVQlIA?start=24963&version=3&end=26790" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">31</td>
    </tr>
    <!-- <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(30-min backup video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JN3CRHWUHTk&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" rel="nofollow" target="_new">here</a>)</td>
    </tr> -->
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyrogues.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Ruby Rogues Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyrogues.com/467/" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">68</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2020</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.jsconfhi.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">JSConf Hawai'i</a></td>
      <td>Waikiki, HI, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNMBOj7JUPs" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">22</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyconf.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">RubyConf</a></td>
      <td>Nashville, TN, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GId6mFL0_c" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">39</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="http://www.lrtechfest.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Little Rock Tech Fest</a></td>
      <td>Little Rock, AR, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RT1712JkUdM" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Sorry for the bad audio, they don't record, so it's from my phone on a tripod, and slightly cleaned up)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.heartlanddc.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Heartland Devconf</a></td>
      <td>Omaha, NE, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=adBtsgolhvI&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(recorded on my phone)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://maintainable.fm/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Maintainable Software Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://maintainable.fm/episodes/dave-aronson-putting-the-m-in-acrumen-n_6lX9fc" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://github.com/elixirup/remote-meetup/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Elixir Remote Meetup<br/>(September)</a></td>
      <td>Online</td>
      <td>Mutants and<br/>Prepending</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCjeKcSN41I&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Ruby on Rails Podcast</a></td>
      <td>Pittsburgh, PA, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.therubyonrailspodcast.com/283" target="_new">audio</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">24</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My first podcast!)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://abstractions.io/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Abstractions</a> II</td>
      <td>Pittsburgh, PA, USA</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td>(none&nbsp;<i>yet</i>)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(They recorded it but are fixing technical difficulties)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://us.mensa.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">American Mensa</a>'s<br/>
        <a href="https://ag.us.mensa.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Annual Gathering</a>
      </td>
      <td>Phoeniz, AZ, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">75!</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Again, more aimed at feedback than teaching, taking advantage of their long timeslots (and big brains))</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.spaconference.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Software Process Advancement</a></td>
      <td>London, UK</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">150!</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Aimed mainly at discussing and perfecting it, not so much teaching it)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://ndcoslo.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">NDC Oslo</a></td>
      <td>Oslo, Norway</td>
      <td>Mutants</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZchSZPjsY0&list=PLMrm16n64Bub8urB-bsyMyHiNPMLG7FAS" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My first delivery of this talk, not very good)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td><a href="https://novacodecamp.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Nova Codecamp</a></td>
      <td>Reston, VA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1QfGyGy3EV8&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(Another one where they don't record so it was just my phone on a tripod)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2019</td>
      <td>Codecamp Chisinau,<br/>part of the <a href="https://codecamp.ro/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Codecamp Romania</a> series</td>
      <td>Chisinau, Moldova</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td><a href="https://devconf.pl/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Devconf Poland</a></td>
      <td>Krakow, Poland</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcREOna0_NA&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">37</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="notes">
      <td colspan="5">(My very first conference talk, so not very well done, sorry!)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td>assorted DC-area Meetups</td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2018</td>
      <td><a href="https://elixirconf.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">ElixirConf</a></td>
      <td>Bellevue, WA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6V1FO1xGitU&list=PLMrm16n64BuaRo9N8xY8OnTOWZ5K2aFG1" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2017</td>
      <td><a href="https://rubyconf.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">RubyConf</a></td>
      <td>New Orleans, LA, USA</td>
      <td>ACRUMEN</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YMoa5JpjEtM?start=4080&end=4355" target="_new">video</a></td>
      <td class="numeric">5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">2014</td>
      <td>assorted DC-area Meetups</td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>Ruby Gotchas</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">~45</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="numeric">1990s<br/>to Now</td>
      <td><a href="https://www.mwm.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Metropolitan Washington Mensa</a>'s<br/><a href="http://mwmrg.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_new">Regional Gathering</a></td>
      <td>Washington, DC, USA area</td>
      <td>spam-protection,<br/>and non-tech topics</td>
      <td>(none)</td>
      <td class="numeric">30-45</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Also, I was one of the co-organizers of
[TDDConf](https://tddconf.com/){:rel="nofollow" target="_new"}
2021,
the very first
international test-driven development conference,
and appeared briefly on-screen
to introduce speakers and fill time.&nbsp;
I was also the <i>sole</i> organizer of Ruby DAYCamp (no website) 2013,
a semi-impromptu "overflow" event for those who couldn't get into Ruby DCamp
(defunct, site gone).
