services/roadmaps.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Roadmaps
---

## What Is It?

I will help you figure out
how to get where you want to go,
and how to get there.&nbsp;
That includes figuring out
where you want to go,
if you're not sure!&nbsp;
Even if you outsource the implementation,
you get documents you can use to
"shop around" for
a vendor,
and some guidance to help them do it.<!--&nbsp;
(I may bid on that myself, or not.)-->

## Why Do It?

Roadmapping
_reduces the risk_
of your project,
in several ways:

- As the name implies,
  it outlines the _way forward_.&nbsp;
  You don't have to wander around,
  with false starts and dead ends.

- It helps uncover _assumptions_
  you may have made,
  that might not be so obvious to an outsider,
  and may in fact be _wrong_!

- It helps nail down the _scope_.&nbsp;
  Both you and the implementor(s) can see
  exactly what is included or not,
  at each phase.

- That, and exposing other things such as
  starting needs or ongoing post-project needs,
  help nail down the _cost_.

- It also helps draw a clear _connection_
  between
  the _business outcome_
  that the project is supposed to provide you,
  and the _possible solutions_.&nbsp;
  This helps ensure that you're
  _solving the right problem_.

## How Does It Work?

### Part 1: Arranging

First, you
[send me some generic information](/services/roadmap-info).&nbsp;
I email you back, with any follow-up questions.&nbsp;
There may be some more back-and-forth, by email or phone.&nbsp;
This is to make sure that we make best use of our limited time together.

If we determine that my roadmapping services are a good fit for you,
then we determine what _size_ of roadmap you need.&nbsp;
<!-- This and the expenses determine the total price.&nbsp; -->
Roadmaps come in Small, Medium, and Large,
and cost $990, $3,900, and $7,900, respectively<!--
plus travel expenses-->.&nbsp;
After you send in a 50% deposit,
we set a date and time<!--, and place
(virtual for now,
maybe in-person, for Large only, once the pandemic is over)-->.

### Part 2: Discussions

When that date comes,
you and I, and maybe some more people,
talk for a while to discuss your
situation, wants, needs, capabilities, plans, concerns, etc.
in further depth.

How long, where, and how many people,
depends on the roadmap size:

- For a _Small_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _one hour_,
  <!-- remotely (such as by phone, Skype, Zoom, etc.), -->
  with _only you_ (or one person you designate).

- For a _Medium_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _four_ hours
  (in one stretch, with breaks as needed),
  <!-- and I can come to your office if you want
  (though any travel time gets subtracted from the discussion time), -->
  and you can bring in one extra person.<!--&nbsp;
  (If I have to travel out of town,
  "travel time" is between my office and the hotel,
  plus an estimated one hour for arranging things.)
  -->

- For a _Large_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _eight_ hours
  (over the course of one day,
  in morning and afternoon sessions),
  <!--
  (over the course of one work-week,
  usually as five six-hour days,
  but I can do four 7.5-hour days,
  or various other schedules if you like).&nbsp;
  Again, I can come to your office if you want
  (though travel time counts against discussion time),-->
  and you can bring in up to _two_ extra people<!--
  (though the discussion should be limited to
  four people _at a time_)-->.

- If even a Large isn't enough time<!--,
  after subtracting travel-->,
  don't worry,
  you can buy multiple Larges and even get a volume discount.

We cover what it is you're trying to do,
breaking it down into manageable chunks,
and identify what is more or less urgent, difficult, etc.

About halfway through,
we'll check our progress,
to see if
you feel that
we are on track to cover
everything you need.&nbsp;
If not,
we'll discuss options such as
covering a broader area but in less depth,
staying more focused,
changing direction,
taking more time now (if I'm available),
scheduling an additional session for later,
and so on.

At the end,
we'll check coverage again,
to see if we're really done discussing,
or if we need to
take more time now or
schedule additional sessions.&nbsp;
We may need that to
go into more depth,
examine new ideas,
discuss something we skipped,
or other reasons.

### Part 3: Delivering

After our discussion,
I might do some more research to close up any gaps,
maybe ask you some more questions by phone or email,
and finally send you a report.&nbsp;
(See below for what's in it.)&nbsp;
After I send the report,
you then have
one week to request any corrections if I got anything wrong.&nbsp;
In that case, I'll _try_ to fix it within a reasonable amount of time,
but what exactly that is may vary with how busy I am.&nbsp;
After all that, you have 20 days
to send me the other half of the payment<!--,
plus any expenses-->.

Meanwhile, we can discuss any additional services you would like.&nbsp;
These will be invoiced separately,
not delaying the invoice for the roadmap.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### _What's in the report?_

That depends on the size of the roadmap.&nbsp;
The short story is that:

- For a _Small_ roadmap, you get:
  - a _high_-level writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into a few big chunks,
  - a _high_ level writeup for each chunk,
  - _one_ chunk broken down into features,
  - a _high_ level writeup of each feature,
  - and a _small_ number of "test narratives" for each of
  a _small_ number of features.

  (A "test narrative" is a textual description of
  how one would _test_ a feature's implementation.&nbsp;
  This is very useful for making sure that
  the implementors understand what you need,
  and have done it right.)

- For a _Medium_ roadmap, you get
  - a _medium_-level writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into _more_ chunks,
  - a _medium_ level writeup for each chunk,
  - _more_ chunks broken down into features,
  - a _medium_ level writeup of each feature,
  - and _more_ "test narratives" for each of _more_ features.

- For a _Large_ roadmap, you get
  - a _more thorough_ writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into _yet more_ chunks,
  - a _more thorough_ writeup for each chunk,
  - _more_ chunks broken down into features,
  - a _more thorough_ writeup of each feature,
  - and _yet more_ "test narratives" for each of _yet more_ features.

[The gory details are here.](/services/roadmap-size-details)

These names, narratives, and so on,
will let you stick them right into your issue-tracker,
so your team can get right to work on
breaking them down further
and implementing them.<!--..
or I can do that for an extra fee (see below).&nbsp;
(If you're not already using an issue tracker,
you probably need my
[Team Process/Tools Advice](/services/advice)
services first!)-->

### _How should I decide what size I want?_

Mainly, ask yourself how much time it would take you,
and how many other people,
to explain it to me,
at the level of detail that you want the roadmap to reflect.&nbsp;
If it's a fairly small and simple project,
one hour with just us<!--, remotely,--> may do.&nbsp;
But if it's big and complex,
and you want it broken down in detail,
you may need
<!--
to talk to me in person
(so we can write on whiteboards and such),
with
-->
the help of some other people,
for a few days or more.

### _What if I'm just not sure?_

All righty then, start with a Small,
and see how you like it.&nbsp;
If you want more, we can
[arrange that](/contact).&nbsp;
You can buy more Smalls, or a larger size,
or make a custom combo by tacking on some things
from the "_What else can I get?_" section below,
or whatever other ideas you may have.

### _What else can I get?_

After you've had a chance to review the report,
or if you just want to really customize it,
we can discuss whether you want some additional services,
for additional prices we will discuss.&nbsp;
For some ideas:

<!--
- You can take some features from a larger roadmap
  and add them to a smaller one,
  such as taking the overall project recommendations from a Large
  but using the Small schema for everything else.
-->

- I can break the project down into more chunks.

- I can break down more chunks into features.

- I can write up details of more chunks and features.

- I can give more features some test narratives.

- I can give some features more test narratives,
  especially ones that have more alternate and/or sad paths.

- I _may_ be able to turn the test _narratives_ into actual _tests_,
  depending exactly what technology you're using.

<!--
- You may ask me to provide some
  conceptual mockups,
  for particular features.&nbsp;
  Be warned, however, that
  _I am not a designer_.&nbsp;
  The results will be utilitarian,
  if not downright ugly.&nbsp;
  However, they will at least show
  how _I_ envision the feature working,
  and can provide a starting point for _your_
  designers or front-end developers.
-->

- I will _probably not_ want to do the actual implementation,
  now that I am semi-retired!

<!--
- _After_ the roadmapping is done,
  I may, or may not, also provide a fixed-price bid
  to actually _implement_ your idea.&nbsp;
  If I don't, you can _try_ to talk me into it,
  but I have probably declined for good reasons,
  such as not having the time or all the skills needed,
  or perhaps I just don't think
  it's worth enough to _you_
  to be worth enough to _me_.&nbsp;
  That said, perhaps we can come to terms on a
  _partial_
  implementation,
  or working with your existing team in a "staff augmentation" style,
  possibly including some ongoing
  mentoring,
  [process improvement](/services/advice),
  and other value-added services.
-->

- Of course I'm happy to "cross-sell" you on my
  [training](/services/training)
  and
  [team process/tools advice](/services/advice)
  <!--
  and
  [code review](/services/code_review)
  -->
  services.&nbsp;
  :-)

- If there are other add-on services
  you would like,
  we can discuss them then.

If there's anything else you need,
or you're ready to submit your inquiry,
go ahead and
[contact me](/contact).

Commit message:

mention early/late payment discounts/penalties

services/roadmaps.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Roadmaps
---

## What Is It?

I will help you figure out
how to get where you want to go,
and how to get there.&nbsp;
That includes figuring out
where you want to go,
if you're not sure!&nbsp;
Even if you outsource the implementation,
you get documents you can use to
"shop around" for
a vendor,
and some guidance to help them do it.<!--&nbsp;
(I may bid on that myself, or not.)-->

## Why Do It?

Roadmapping
_reduces the risk_
of your project,
in several ways:

- As the name implies,
  it outlines the _way forward_.&nbsp;
  You don't have to wander around,
  with false starts and dead ends.

- It helps uncover _assumptions_
  you may have made,
  that might not be so obvious to an outsider,
  and may in fact be _wrong_!

- It helps nail down the _scope_.&nbsp;
  Both you and the implementor(s) can see
  exactly what is included or not,
  at each phase.

- That, and exposing other things such as
  starting needs or ongoing post-project needs,
  help nail down the _cost_.

- It also helps draw a clear _connection_
  between
  the _business outcome_
  that the project is supposed to provide you,
  and the _possible solutions_.&nbsp;
  This helps ensure that you're
  _solving the right problem_.

## How Does It Work?

### Part 1: Arranging

First, you
[send me some generic information](/services/roadmap-info).&nbsp;
I email you back, with any follow-up questions.&nbsp;
There may be some more back-and-forth, by email or phone.&nbsp;
This is to make sure that we make best use of our limited time together.

If we determine that my roadmapping services are a good fit for you,
then we determine what _size_ of roadmap you need.&nbsp;
<!-- This and the expenses determine the total price.&nbsp; -->
Roadmaps come in Small, Medium, and Large,
and cost $990, $3,900, and $7,900, respectively<!--
plus travel expenses-->.&nbsp;
After you send in a 50% deposit,
we set a date and time<!--, and place
(virtual for now,
maybe in-person, for Large only, once the pandemic is over)-->.

### Part 2: Discussions

When that date comes,
you and I, and maybe some more people,
talk for a while to discuss your
situation, wants, needs, capabilities, plans, concerns, etc.
in further depth.

How long, where, and how many people,
depends on the roadmap size:

- For a _Small_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _one hour_,
  <!-- remotely (such as by phone, Skype, Zoom, etc.), -->
  with _only you_ (or one person you designate).

- For a _Medium_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _four_ hours
  (in one stretch, with breaks as needed),
  <!-- and I can come to your office if you want
  (though any travel time gets subtracted from the discussion time), -->
  and you can bring in one extra person.<!--&nbsp;
  (If I have to travel out of town,
  "travel time" is between my office and the hotel,
  plus an estimated one hour for arranging things.)
  -->

- For a _Large_ roadmap,
  we discuss it for up to _eight_ hours
  (over the course of one day,
  in morning and afternoon sessions),
  <!--
  (over the course of one work-week,
  usually as five six-hour days,
  but I can do four 7.5-hour days,
  or various other schedules if you like).&nbsp;
  Again, I can come to your office if you want
  (though travel time counts against discussion time),-->
  and you can bring in up to _two_ extra people<!--
  (though the discussion should be limited to
  four people _at a time_)-->.

- If even a Large isn't enough time<!--,
  after subtracting travel-->,
  don't worry,
  you can buy multiple Larges and even get a volume discount.

We cover what it is you're trying to do,
breaking it down into manageable chunks,
and identify what is more or less urgent, difficult, etc.

About halfway through,
we'll check our progress,
to see if
you feel that
we are on track to cover
everything you need.&nbsp;
If not,
we'll discuss options such as
covering a broader area but in less depth,
staying more focused,
changing direction,
taking more time now (if I'm available),
scheduling an additional session for later,
and so on.

At the end,
we'll check coverage again,
to see if we're really done discussing,
or if we need to
take more time now or
schedule additional sessions.&nbsp;
We may need that to
go into more depth,
examine new ideas,
discuss something we skipped,
or other reasons.

### Part 3: Delivering

After our discussion,
I might do some more research to close up any gaps,
maybe ask you some more questions by phone or email,
and finally send you a report.&nbsp;
(See below for what's in it.)&nbsp;
After I send the report,
you then have
one week to request any corrections if I got anything wrong.&nbsp;
In that case, I'll _try_ to fix it within a reasonable amount of time,
but what exactly that is may vary with how busy I am.

The second half of the payment is due
20 days after billing,
which is usually right after delivery of the finalized roadmap.&nbsp;
There are
penalties for late payment
and
discounts for early payment.

Meanwhile, we can discuss any additional services you would like.&nbsp;
These will be invoiced separately,
not delaying the invoice for the roadmap.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### _What's in the report?_

That depends on the size of the roadmap.&nbsp;
The short story is that:

- For a _Small_ roadmap, you get:
  - a _high_-level writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into a few big chunks,
  - a _high_ level writeup for each chunk,
  - _one_ chunk broken down into features,
  - a _high_ level writeup of each feature,
  - and a _small_ number of "test narratives" for each of
  a _small_ number of features.

  (A "test narrative" is a textual description of
  how one would _test_ a feature's implementation.&nbsp;
  This is very useful for making sure that
  the implementors understand what you need,
  and have done it right.)

- For a _Medium_ roadmap, you get
  - a _medium_-level writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into _more_ chunks,
  - a _medium_ level writeup for each chunk,
  - _more_ chunks broken down into features,
  - a _medium_ level writeup of each feature,
  - and _more_ "test narratives" for each of _more_ features.

- For a _Large_ roadmap, you get
  - a _more thorough_ writeup of details and recommendations,
  - your project broken down into _yet more_ chunks,
  - a _more thorough_ writeup for each chunk,
  - _more_ chunks broken down into features,
  - a _more thorough_ writeup of each feature,
  - and _yet more_ "test narratives" for each of _yet more_ features.

[The gory details are here.](/services/roadmap-size-details)

These names, narratives, and so on,
will let you stick them right into your issue-tracker,
so your team can get right to work on
breaking them down further
and implementing them.<!--..
or I can do that for an extra fee (see below).&nbsp;
(If you're not already using an issue tracker,
you probably need my
[Team Process/Tools Advice](/services/advice)
services first!)-->

### _How should I decide what size I want?_

Mainly, ask yourself how much time it would take you,
and how many other people,
to explain it to me,
at the level of detail that you want the roadmap to reflect.&nbsp;
If it's a fairly small and simple project,
one hour with just us<!--, remotely,--> may do.&nbsp;
But if it's big and complex,
and you want it broken down in detail,
you may need
<!--
to talk to me in person
(so we can write on whiteboards and such),
with
-->
the help of some other people,
for a few days or more.

### _What if I'm just not sure?_

All righty then, start with a Small,
and see how you like it.&nbsp;
If you want more, we can
[arrange that](/contact).&nbsp;
You can buy more Smalls, or a larger size,
or make a custom combo by tacking on some things
from the "_What else can I get?_" section below,
or whatever other ideas you may have.

### _What else can I get?_

After you've had a chance to review the report,
or if you just want to really customize it,
we can discuss whether you want some additional services,
for additional prices we will discuss.&nbsp;
For some ideas:

<!--
- You can take some features from a larger roadmap
  and add them to a smaller one,
  such as taking the overall project recommendations from a Large
  but using the Small schema for everything else.
-->

- I can break the project down into more chunks.

- I can break down more chunks into features.

- I can write up details of more chunks and features.

- I can give more features some test narratives.

- I can give some features more test narratives,
  especially ones that have more alternate and/or sad paths.

- I _may_ be able to turn the test _narratives_ into actual _tests_,
  depending exactly what technology you're using.

<!--
- You may ask me to provide some
  conceptual mockups,
  for particular features.&nbsp;
  Be warned, however, that
  _I am not a designer_.&nbsp;
  The results will be utilitarian,
  if not downright ugly.&nbsp;
  However, they will at least show
  how _I_ envision the feature working,
  and can provide a starting point for _your_
  designers or front-end developers.
-->

- I will _probably not_ want to do the actual implementation,
  now that I am semi-retired!

<!--
- _After_ the roadmapping is done,
  I may, or may not, also provide a fixed-price bid
  to actually _implement_ your idea.&nbsp;
  If I don't, you can _try_ to talk me into it,
  but I have probably declined for good reasons,
  such as not having the time or all the skills needed,
  or perhaps I just don't think
  it's worth enough to _you_
  to be worth enough to _me_.&nbsp;
  That said, perhaps we can come to terms on a
  _partial_
  implementation,
  or working with your existing team in a "staff augmentation" style,
  possibly including some ongoing
  mentoring,
  [process improvement](/services/advice),
  and other value-added services.
-->

- Of course I'm happy to "cross-sell" you on my
  [training](/services/training)
  and
  [team process/tools advice](/services/advice)
  <!--
  and
  [code review](/services/code_review)
  -->
  services.&nbsp;
  :-)

- If there are other add-on services
  you would like,
  we can discuss them then.

If there's anything else you need,
or you're ready to submit your inquiry,
go ahead and
[contact me](/contact).
